pages/polysomnography-introduction.md, before:

# Polysomnography introduction

Data collection for PSG was standardized by use of standardized collection and display montages. Each unit used for collection was certified before use to maximize signal quality integrity throughout the EDF conversion and import into Compumedics Profusion software used for scoring.

Notes:

- [Montage and Sampling Rate Information](:pages_path:/montage-and-sampling-rate-information.md)

## Signal and annotation files

[Raw polysomnography data](:files_path:/polysomnography) are available for 453 subjects. Each recording has a signal file (.EDF) and two versions of the event scoring and epoch staging annotations (.XML).

1. **[EDF](:files_path:/polysomnography/edfs)** - Signal files in the [European Data Format](http://www.edfplus.info/) exported from Compumedics Profusion.
2. **[XML (Profusion)](:files_path:/polysomnography/annotations-events-profusion)** - Annotation files exported from Compumedics Profusion. ([Learn more...](https://github.com/nsrr/edf-editor-translator/wiki/Compumedics-Annotation-Format))
3. **[XML (NSRR)](:files_path:/polysomnography/annotations-events-nsrr)** - Annotation files processed in the [EDF Editor and Translator](https://www.sleepdata.org/community/tools/12) tool.

NSRR XML files can be overlaid onto EDF signal files using the [EDF Viewer tool](https://sleepdata.org/community/tools/nsrr-edf-viewer). For more information about the XML translation (mapping) process, review the files available on the [EDF Editor and Translator Releases page](https://github.com/nsrr/edf-editor-translator/releases).

## Known issues

- Raw data and annotations for eight subjects (508, 1050, 1681, 2461, 2729, 3698, 5332, 7411) are not available due to prior data loss.

## History / changelog

*December 2016*
- Change EDF recording dates from "00.00.00" (invalid) to "01.01.85" (valid de-identified date)

*March 2016*
- Polysomnography data uploaded to sleepdata.org after exports from Compumedics Profusion

## Questions?

Please reach out to us at support@sleepdata.org or in the [Forum](https://sleepdata.org/forum) if you have questions.

Commit message:

Add note about reprocessed limb data, fix #4

pages/polysomnography-introduction.md, after:

# Polysomnography introduction

Data collection for PSG was standardized by use of standardized collection and display montages. Each unit used for collection was certified before use to maximize signal quality integrity throughout the EDF conversion and import into Compumedics Profusion software used for scoring.

Notes:

- [Montage and Sampling Rate Information](:pages_path:/montage-and-sampling-rate-information.md)

## Signal and annotation files

[Raw polysomnography data](:files_path:/polysomnography) are available for 453 subjects. Each recording has a signal file (.EDF) and two versions of the event scoring and epoch staging annotations (.XML).

1. **[EDF](:files_path:/polysomnography/edfs)** - Signal files in the [European Data Format](http://www.edfplus.info/) exported from Compumedics Profusion.
2. **[XML (Profusion)](:files_path:/polysomnography/annotations-events-profusion)** - Annotation files exported from Compumedics Profusion. ([Learn more...](https://github.com/nsrr/edf-editor-translator/wiki/Compumedics-Annotation-Format))
3. **[XML (NSRR)](:files_path:/polysomnography/annotations-events-nsrr)** - Annotation files processed in the [EDF Editor and Translator](https://www.sleepdata.org/community/tools/12) tool.

NSRR XML files can be overlaid onto EDF signal files using the [EDF Viewer tool](https://sleepdata.org/community/tools/nsrr-edf-viewer). For more information about the XML translation (mapping) process, review the files available on the [EDF Editor and Translator Releases page](https://github.com/nsrr/edf-editor-translator/releases).

## Known issues

- Raw data and annotations for eight subjects (508, 1050, 1681, 2461, 2729, 3698, 5332, 7411) are not available due to prior data loss.
- Limb movements were reprocessed after original scoring, with updated results being included in summary datasets. The XML files on NSRR include the original limb movement scoring data. The reprocessed limb movement data are not avaiable in a raw format.

## History / changelog

*December 2016*
- Change EDF recording dates from "00.00.00" (invalid) to "01.01.85" (valid de-identified date)

*March 2016*
- Polysomnography data uploaded to sleepdata.org after exports from Compumedics Profusion

## Questions?

Please reach out to us at support@sleepdata.org or in the [Forum](https://sleepdata.org/forum) if you have questions.
