pages/README.md, before:

# About the Study

The multi-center Study of Osteoporotic Fractures (SOF) has 16 years of prospective data about osteoporosis that has served as the basis for many findings about osteoporosis and aging in women >= age 65. In addition to adjudication of fractures, SOF has tracked cases of incident breast cancer, stroke, and total and cause-specific mortality. The data include serial measures of bone mineral density, measurements of sex and calcitropic hormones, tests of strength and function, cognitive exams, use of medication, health habits and much more.

The [SOF Online website](http://sof.ucsf.edu/) was created in 2011 in order to open the SOF data to the broader research community. In collaboration with SOF Online, the National Sleep Research Resource is making available the SOF raw sleep study (EDF) data, along with a fuller set of polysomnography variables.

## Dataset Download

Note: NSRR datasets and SOF Online datasets may be linked on `PDRID`.

<a href=":files_path:/datasets" class="btn btn-success btn-lg">Download Datasets</a> 1.3 MB

## EEG Spectral Analysis

As part of the NSRR's effort to explore the SOF data in more detail, EEG spectral analysis was performed. Read more about the [methods, validation, and results for the NSRR EEG spectral analysis efforts](:pages_path:/eeg-spectral-analysis.md). There are [two summary datasets available](:files_path:/datasets) and the [included variables can be browsed here](https://www.sleepdata.org/datasets/sof/variables?folder=Spectral+Analysis).

## Recent Changes

- Find a complete list of changes in the [CHANGELOG.md](:pages_path:/CHANGELOG.md)

## Publications

- Search on the [SOF Online website](http://sof.ucsf.edu/interface/PubMain.asp)

Commit message:

Added sentence re 461 sleep studies completed.

pages/README.md, after:

# About the Study

The multi-center Study of Osteoporotic Fractures (SOF) has 16 years of prospective data about osteoporosis that has served as the basis for many findings about osteoporosis and aging in women >= age 65. In addition to adjudication of fractures, SOF has tracked cases of incident breast cancer, stroke, and total and cause-specific mortality. The data include serial measures of bone mineral density, measurements of sex and calcitropic hormones, tests of strength and function, cognitive exams, use of medication, health habits and much more.

The [SOF Online website](http://sof.ucsf.edu/) was created in 2011 in order to open the SOF data to the broader research community. In collaboration with SOF Online, the National Sleep Research Resource is making available the SOF raw sleep study (EDF) data, along with a fuller set of polysomnography variables.  Sleep studies were completed on 461 SOF participants at Visit 8.

## Dataset Download

Note: NSRR datasets and SOF Online datasets may be linked on `PDRID`.

<a href=":files_path:/datasets" class="btn btn-success btn-lg">Download Datasets</a> 1.3 MB

## EEG Spectral Analysis

As part of the NSRR's effort to explore the SOF data in more detail, EEG spectral analysis was performed. Read more about the [methods, validation, and results for the NSRR EEG spectral analysis efforts](:pages_path:/eeg-spectral-analysis.md). There are [two summary datasets available](:files_path:/datasets) and the [included variables can be browsed here](https://www.sleepdata.org/datasets/sof/variables?folder=Spectral+Analysis).

## Recent Changes

- Find a complete list of changes in the [CHANGELOG.md](:pages_path:/CHANGELOG.md)

## Publications

- Search on the [SOF Online website](http://sof.ucsf.edu/interface/PubMain.asp)
